and actually went to New Zealand
to study the other side of the
island but satisfying my
curiosity
I start exploring this coastline
and that turned out to be the
day that i actually discovered
the longest sea cave in the
world
on this coastline that's only
about a mile long
it contains six of the ten
longest sea caves in the world
including the two longest it's
really exciting you get to an
entrance and you really have no
idea what's going to happen
pushing down that next passage
maybe the swells sort of resting
up to the ceiling and you might
have to hold your breath just to
go through to the next part and
you don't know if that's the end
of the cave or if it's going to
open up into a big room full of
beautiful formations or
interesting to see light
these caves have some really
impressive tape formations in
them that as they slowly trip
they record climate through time
just like tree rings - it's one
small piece of the global
climate puzzle
then we can start looking at
things like what's the erosion
rate because the way see case
for ms by eroding coastlines
we're mapping these caves using
both traditional 2d cave survey
and also newer three-dimensional
surveying based on photography
we can get texture on the cave
walls of all these features in
addition to the shape and
morphology of the case but we
still have a lot of work to do
because with caves you truly
don't know what you're getting
yourself into until you get
yourself into them
it's true exploration